Storage management allows for the computer hard drive, which stores the OS and data, to be manipulated and customized as needed.

What is a partition? In Linux, when partitioning a hard drive, it refers to the logically separated space.
It is a logical container which is used to house filesystems, where operating systems, applications, and data is stored on.
A single partition may span the entirety of a physical storage device.

What is a File System?
A file system provides a way of separating the data on the drive into individual pieces, which are the files.
It also provides a way to store data about these files for example, their filenames, permissions, and other attributes.
The file system also provides an index which is a list of the files on the drive and where they are located on the drive,
so the operating system can see what’s on the drive in one place rather than combing through the entire drive to find a file.

Your operating system needs to understand a file system so it can display its contents, open files, and save files to it.
If your operating system doesn’t understand a file system, you may be able to install a file system driver that provides support
or you just can’t use that file system with that operating system.

Partitioning your disk..
/root partition
The /root directory is the home directory of the user account for system administration.
A 3.0 GB root (/) partition allows you to install a minimal installation, while a 5.0 GB root partition lets you perform a full installation

/boot partition
Contains the OS kernel which allows your system to boot the Linux, along with files used during the bootstrap process.
For most users, a 250 MB boot partition is sufficient. Note that normally the /boot partition is created automatically by the installer.
However, if the /root partition is larger than 2 TB and UEFI is used for booting, you need to create a separate /boot partition
that is smaller than 2 TB to boot the machine successfully.

/swap partition
You need one partition that will be used as Linux swap space. This is space on your hard drive that can be used as virtual memory. Virtual
memory allows your computer to run large programs and perform complex tasks even if it does not have enough physical RAM to do the job.
It is lot slower than physical RAM, but it still works.



Historically, the general rule for swap partition size was to allocate twice the amount of physical RAM. But as computers have now gained larger
memory capacities, this rule is outdated. The basic idea is that if you are short on RAM with plenty of drive space, go large. If you’re
short on drive space and have lots of RAM, go small.

Mount/ Mount point
The way Linux works is that it puts everything onto a hierarchical tree.  If you have another partition or disk, it gets “mounted” as
a branch in a specific folder, usually /media or /mnt.  The directory that a partition gets mounted to is called a “mount point”.
This method works better with Linux’s tree structure, and you can mount partitions as folders nearly anywhere.  In Windows, this is not so easily done;
new partitions generally show up as separate drives.  In addition, Linux can work with many more types of file systems natively than Windows.
