Fire walls

DESCRIPTION
       Iptables  is  used  to set up, maintain, and inspect the tables of IPv4
       packet filter rules in the Linux kernel.  Several different tables  may
       be  defined.   Each  table contains a number of built-in chains and may
       also contain user-defined chains.

       Each chain is a list of rules which can match a set of  packets.   Each
       rule specifies what to do with a packet that matches.  This is called a
       ‘target’, which may be a jump to a user-defined chain in the  same  table.
TARGETS
       A  firewall  rule specifies criteria for a packet and a target.  If the
       packet does not match, the next rule in the chain is the  examined;  if
       it does match, then the next rule is specified by the value of the tar-
       get, which can be the name of a user-defined chain or one of  the  special values ACCEPT, DROP, QUEUE or RETURN.

Syntax to blocking IP
#iptables -I INPUT -p tcp --dport 22 -s 10.1.11.99 -j REJECT

-p, --protocol: a set of rules governing the exchange or transmission of data between devices ...

             The  protocol of the rule or of the packet to check.  The specified protocol can be
             one of tcp, udp, udplite,  icmp,  esp,  ah, sctp  or  all, or it can be a numeric value, representing one of
             these protocols or  a  different  one.   A  protocol  name  from /etc/protocols  is also allowed.  A "!" argument
             before the protocol inverts the test.  The number zero is equivalent  to  all.
             Protocol  all  will  match  with  all  protocols and is taken as default when this option is omitted.
             TCP and UDP are transport layer protocols, port-to-port protocols that work on the top of the IP protocols
             to deliver the packet from the originating port to the IP services, and from IP services to the destination port.

By default there are three tables in the kernel that contain sets of rules.

The filter table is used for packet filtering.

              root@debian6~# iptables -t filter -L
              Chain INPUT (policy ACCEPT)
              target     prot opt source               destination

              Chain FORWARD (policy ACCEPT)
              target     prot opt source               destination

              Chain OUTPUT (policy ACCEPT)
              target     prot opt source               destination
The nat table is used for address translation.

              root@debian6~# iptables -t nat -L
              Chain PREROUTING (policy ACCEPT)
              target     prot opt source               destination

              Chain POSTROUTING (policy ACCEPT)
              target     prot opt source               destination

              Chain OUTPUT (policy ACCEPT)
              target     prot opt source               destination

The mangle table can be used for special-purpose processing of packets.
Series of rules in each table are called a chain. We will discuss chains and the nat table later in this chapter.

About packet filtering
Packet filtering is a bit more than packet forwarding. While packet forwarding uses only a routing table to make decisions,
packet filtering also uses a list of rules. The kernel will inspect packets and decide based on these rules what to do with each packet.

The filter table in iptables has three chains (sets of rules).
The INPUT chain is used for any packet coming into the system.
The OUTPUT chain is for any packet leaving the system.
And the FORWARD chain is for packets that are forwarded (routed) through the system.

Blocking IP
#iptables -I INPUT -p tcp --dport 22 -s 10.1.13.45 -j REJECT
-I (insert)
-p (protocol)
-dport (destination port)
-s (source, what ip the action is being used on)
-j (jump, the action being taken on)
